---
layout: post
title: Titulo
date: 2021-01-19
image: images/work.png
tags: [Work]
---

Source: https://a16z.com/2020/12/04/leadership-evolution-cto-ceo-product-sales-transitions-external-ceo/

Startups need phase leaders:
To be a leader early on in a startup you have to be a PRODUCT LEADER,
Next you should focus on SALES LEADER, in order to get a considerable sales motion.
The last stage is the OPERATION LEADER, start creating partnerships, engaging others 
channels.

Be on of them or bring them in.

PRODUCT 2 MARKET FIT -> SALES -> OPERATION

The main activity of a company's ceo is to SELL THEIR PRODUCT.

PRODUCT STAGE: find product to market fit. About the tecnical constrution of your product/products.

SALES STAGE: build a repeatable sales motion. There are two ways to increase 
your customer base: expanding R&D or increasing your sales. In the beginning, R&D is 
a tough burden to carry, it would increase your cost, shrinking your margin and consequently 
your valuation, in a linear relationship. Sales people, on the other hand, can drive 
your revenue exponentially. CREATE YOUR CUSTOMER BASE AROUND THE LEAST COSTFUL STRUCTURE.

OPERATION STAGE: in this stage, your company should already be engaging in different channels,
exploiting new market needs, thus you have to straighten your operation in a way that a healthy
transition occur, from the previous heavy growth scenario into a more manageble state.

The focus here, is how to generate optimal transitions between those stages.
- One person three stages vs different executives?
- Team guidance?
- Are company's objectives clear?
- Does the company's mood allow for healthy transitions?
- Is it possible to bring a key person to grow your business with no board interference?

Hire and compose your team during bad times. Good times provide no proof of motivation.